Now that we've talked about
the ForkJoinTask class,
we can start to discuss some
of its common subclasses.
These classes will be recursive
action, recursive task,
and counted completer.
Programs don't typically
implement ForkJoinTask.
But instead, they extend
from one of its subclasses
and override the
compute hook method
defined in those subclasses.
This is a little
bit goofy at first.
And I'm not quite
sure, honestly,
why they did it quite this way.
We'll talk more about
that in just a second.
Here is a quick summary of
the three primary subclasses
of ForkJoinTask.
We're going to
focus on two of them
in great detail in this course.
But all three of them
are RecursiveAction,
which is used for computations
that do not return results;
RecursiveTask, which
is for computations
that do return results; and
finally, CountedCompleter,
which is used for computation in
which completed actions trigger
other actions.
And Counted Completer
isn't typically used
by application code.
But it's used very, very
heavily in the context
of the underlying
functional parallelism
frameworks in Java,
such as parallel streams
and completable futures.
Interestingly
enough, these classes
aren't functional interfaces.
They were defined in Java 7.
So they have to be
subclassed rather than
by using lambda
expressions to implement
the abstract compute method.
And this is really
sort of annoying,
and it makes your
code more cumbersome.
But it's just the way it is.
We just have to deal with it.
So you can basically think of
the parallel streams framework
as providing a functional
facade for ForkJoinTask,
fork-join pool, and so on.
So even though ForkJoinTask
is not a particularly
pleasant interface to program
from a functional perspective,
you can use parallel
streams and all
is forgiven, because the
streams framework will
hide all that details from you
behind a much cooler and more
composable functional
programming model.
And we'll talk--
I think we've actually talked
already about this, how to map
the parallel
streams abstractions
onto the common fork-join
pool abstractions,
if you go back and watch the
video from the earlier week's
lessons on parallel
streams internals.